Guide for authors - Applied Soft Computing - ISSN 1568-4946 | ScienceDirect.com by Elsevier
Skip to main content
ScienceDirect Journals & Books
Help
Search
My account
Sign in
Applied Soft Computing
Supports open access
15.8 CiteScore
7.2 Impact Factor
Articles & Issues
About
Publish
Order journal
Menu Articles & Issues
Latest issue
All issues
Articles in press
Special issues and article collections
Linked datasets
Sign in to set up alerts
RSS
About
Publish
Order journal
Submit search
Submit your article Guide for authors
Guide for authors
Compare journals
About the journal
Aims and scope
Article types
Peer review
Open access
Ethics and Policies
Ethics in publishing
Submission declaration
Authorship
Changes to authorship
Declaration of interests
Funding sources
Declaration of generative AI in scientific writing
Preprints
Use of inclusive language
Reporting sex- and gender-based analyses
Jurisdictional claims
Writing and Formatting
File format
LaTeX
Title page
Abstract
Keywords
Highlights
Graphical abstract
Math formulae
Tables
Figures, images and artwork
Generative AI and Figures, images and artwork
Supplementary material
Video
Research data
Data statement
Data linking
Research Elements
Article structure
References
Submitting your Manuscript
Submission checklist
Submit online
After Receiving a Final Decision
Article Transfer Service
Publishing agreement
License options
Open access
Permission for copyrighted works
Proof correction
Share Link
Responsible sharing
Resources for Authors
Elsevier Researcher Academy
Language and editing services
Getting Help and Support
Author support
Compare journals
About the journal
Aims and scope
The Official Journal of the World Federation on Soft Computing (WFSC) http://www.softcomputing.org
Applied Soft Computing is an international journal promoting an integrated view of soft computing to solve real life problems. Soft computing is a collection of methodologies, which aim to exploit tolerance for imprecision, uncertainty and partial truth to achieve tractability, robustness and low solution cost. The focus is to publish the highest quality research in application, advance and convergence of the areas of Fuzzy Logic , Neural Networks , Evolutionary Computing , Swarm Intelligence and other similar techniques to address real world complexities.
Applied Soft Computing is a rolling publication: articles are published as soon as the editor-in-chief has accepted them. Therefore, the web site will continuously be updated with new articles and the publication time will be short.
Major Topics:
The scope of this journal covers the following soft computing and related techniques, interactions between several soft computing techniques, and their industrial applications:
Evolutionary Computing
Fuzzy Computing
Hybrid Methods
Immunological Computing
Neuro Computing
Swarm Intelligence
Machine and Deep Learning
Rough Sets
The application areas of interest include but are not limited to applications of soft computing to:
Agricultural Machinery, Smart Farming
Autonomous Reasoning
Big Data, IoT, Edge Computing
Combinatorial Optimization
Data Mining
Decision Support
Engineering Design Optimization
Fault Diagnosis
Finance
Human-Machine Interface
Intelligent Agents
Manufacturing Systems
Power Electronics
Multi-objective Optimization
Power and Energy
Process and System Control
Robotics
Security
Sensor Systems
Signal or Image Processing
Software Engineering
Supply Chain Economy
System Identification and Modelling
Telecommunications
Time Series Prediction
Extended Reality, Metaverse, Digital Twins
Vision or Pattern Recognition
Authors are welcome to submit letters promoting original soft computing research to Applied Soft Computing's open access companion title, Systems and Soft Computing .
Article types
Authors are invited to submit technical papers (20-30 pages, at most 50 pages), state of the art survey papers (but see Section on Review Articles below), commentaries, and letters (see Section on Letter Articles below).Authors are encouraged to utilize the opportunity given by this on-line publication to include animations, software demonstrations, and video clips etc. The papers will be published on Elsevier Web Site as soon as they are accepted, which enables authors to publish their work FAST and readers get the latest work in Soft Computing on their desktop!
Replicability Badge and Software Publication
Reproducibility Badge Initiative (RBI) is a collaboration with Code Ocean (CO), a cloud based computational reproducibility platform that helps the community by enabling sharing of code and data as a resource for non-commercial use. CO verifies the submitted code (and data) and certifies its reproducibility. Code submission will be verified by the Code Ocean team for computational reproducibility by making sure it runs, delivers results and it is self-contained. For more information please visit this help article .
Note that an accepted paper will be published independently of the CO application outcome. However, if the paper receives the Reproducibility badge, it will be given additional exposure by having an attached R Badge, and by being citable at the CO website with a DOI. If interested to join this initiative, you have to click YES to the question asked during submission: "If my paper is accepted for publication, I will apply to the Reproducibility Badge Initiative (RBI)."
Software Impacts
In addition, we invite you to convert your open source software with R Badge into an additional journal publication in Software Impacts , a multi-disciplinary open access journal. Software Impacts provides a scholarly reference to software that has been used to address a research challenge. The journal disseminates impactful and re-usable scientific software through Original Software Publications (OSP) which describe the application of the software to research and the published outputs. For more information contact us at: [email protected]
Peer review
This journal follows a single anonymized review process. Your submission will initially be assessed by our editors to determine suitability for publication in this journal. If your submission is deemed suitable, it will typically be sent to a minimum of two reviewers to assess the scientific quality. The decision as to whether your article is accepted or rejected will be taken by our editors. This decision is final.
Our editors are not involved in making decisions about papers which:
they have written themselves.
have been written by family members or colleagues.
relate to products or services in which they have an interest.
Any such submissions will be subject to the journal's usual procedures and peer review will be handled independently of the editor involved and their research group.
Read more about peer review .
Special issues and article collections
The peer review process for special issues and article collections follows the same process as outlined above for regular submissions, except, a guest editor will send the submissions out to the reviewers and recommend a decision to the journal editor. The journal editor oversees the peer review process of all special issues and article collections to ensure the high standards of publishing ethics and responsiveness are respected and is responsible for the final decision regarding acceptance or rejection of articles.
Open access
We refer you to our open access information page to learn about open access options for this journal.
Ethics and Policies
Ethics in publishing
Authors must follow ethical guidelines stated in Elsevier's Publishing Ethics Policy .
Submission declaration
When authors submit an article to an Elsevier journal it is implied that:
the work described has not been published previously except in the form of a preprint, an abstract, a published lecture, academic thesis or registered report. See our policy on multiple, redundant or concurrent publication .
the article is not under consideration for publication elsewhere.
the article's publication is approved by all authors and tacitly or explicitly by the responsible authorities where the work was carried out.
if accepted, the article will not be published elsewhere in the same form, in English or in any other language, including electronically without the written consent of the copyright-holder.
To verify compliance of the above, we may check your article using the plagiarism detection tool Crossref Similarity Check and other originality or duplicate checking software.
Authorship
All authors should have made substantial contributions to all of the following:
The conception and design of the study, or acquisition of data, or analysis and interpretation of data.
Drafting the article or revising it critically for important intellectual content.
Final approval of the version to be submitted.
All authors should agree to be accountable for all aspects of the work to ensure that the questions related to the accuracy or integrity of any part of the work are appropriately investigated and resolved.
Changes to authorship
The editors of this journal generally will not consider changes to authorship once a manuscript has been submitted. It is important that authors carefully consider the authorship list and order of authors and provide a definitive author list at original submission.
The policy of this journal around authorship changes:
All authors must be listed in the manuscript and their details entered into the submission system.
Any addition, deletion or rearrangement of author names in the authorship list should only be made prior to acceptance, and only if approved by the journal editor.
Requests to change authorship should be made by the corresponding author, who must provide the reason for the request to the journal editor with written confirmation from all authors, including any authors being added or removed, that they agree with the addition, removal or rearrangement.
Only in exceptional circumstances will the journal editor consider the addition, deletion or rearrangement of authors post acceptance.
Publication of the manuscript may be paused while a change in authorship request is being considered.
Any authorship change requests approved by the journal editor will result in a corrigendum if the manuscript has already been published.
Any unauthorised authorship changes may result in the rejection of the article, or retraction, if the article has already been published.
Declaration of interests
All authors must disclose any financial and personal relationships with other people or organizations that could inappropriately influence or bias their work. Examples of potential competing interests include:
Employment
Consultancies
Stock ownership
Honoraria
Paid expert testimony
Patent applications or registrations
Grants or any other funding
The Declaration of Interests tool should always be completed.
Authors with no competing interests to declare should select the option, “I have nothing to declare”.
The resulting Word document containing your declaration should be uploaded at the "attach/upload files" step in the submission process. It is important that the Word document is saved in the .doc/.docx file format. Author signatures are not required.
We advise you to read our policy on conflict of interest statements, funding source declarations, author agreements/declarations and permission notes .
Funding sources
Authors must disclose any funding sources who provided financial support for the conduct of the research and/or preparation of the article.The role of sponsors, if any, should be declared in relation to the study design, collection, analysis and interpretation of data, writing of the report and decision to submit the article for publication.If funding sources had no such involvement this should be stated in your submission.
List funding sources in this standard way to facilitate compliance to funder's requirements:
Funding: This work was supported by the National Institutes of Health [grant numbers xxxx, yyyy]; the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Seattle, WA [grant number zzzz]; and the United States Institutes of Peace [grant number aaaa].
It is not necessary to include detailed descriptions on the program or type of grants, scholarships and awards. When funding is from a block grant or other resources available to a university, college, or other research institution, submit the name of the institute or organization that provided the funding.
If no funding has been provided for the research, it is recommended to include the following sentence:
This research did not receive any specific grant from funding agencies in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors.
Declaration of generative AI in scientific writing
Authors must declare the use of generative AI in scientific writing upon submission of the paper. The following guidance refers only to the writing process, and not to the use of AI tools to analyse and draw insights from data as part of the research process:
Generative AI and AI-assisted technologies should only be used in the writing process to improve the readability and language of the manuscript.
The technology must be applied with human oversight and control and authors should carefully review and edit the result, as AI can generate authoritative-sounding output that can be incorrect, incomplete or biased. Authors are ultimately responsible and accountable for the contents of the work.
Authors must not list or cite AI and AI-assisted technologies as an author or co-author on the manuscript since authorship implies responsibilities and tasks that can only be attributed to and performed by humans.
The use of generative AI and AI-assisted technologies in scientific writing must be declared by adding a statement at the end of the manuscript when the paper is first submitted. The statement will appear in the published work and should be placed in a new section before the references list. An example:
Title of new section: Declaration of generative AI and AI-assisted technologies in the writing process.
Statement: During the preparation of this work the author(s) used [NAME TOOL / SERVICE] in order to [REASON]. After using this tool/service, the author(s) reviewed and edited the content as needed and take(s) full responsibility for the content of the published article.
The declaration does not apply to the use of basic tools, such as tools used to check grammar, spelling and references. If you have nothing to disclose, you do not need to add a statement.
We advise you to read our policy for authors on the use of generative AI and AI-assisted technologies for Elsevier.
Please note: to protect authors’ rights and the confidentiality of their research, this journal does not currently allow the use of Generative AI or AI-assisted technologies such as ChatGPT or similar services by reviewers or editors in the peer review and manuscript evaluation process. We are actively evaluating compliant AI tools and may revise this policy in the future.
Preprints
Preprint sharing
Authors may share preprints, anywhere and at any time, in line with Elsevier's article sharing policy . Sharing preprints, such as on a preprint server, will not count as prior publication.
We advise you to read our policy on multiple, redundant or concurrent publication .
For journals following a double anonymized peer review process, submissions should not be published as a preprint until a final decision has been made.
Free preprint posting on SSRN
In support of open science this journal offers authors a free preprint posting service on SSRN to ensure early registration and dissemination of research and facilitate early citations and collaboration.Posting to SSRN is subject to SSRN’s standard checks.
You will be provided with the option to release your manuscript on SSRN during the submission process. Agreeing to this option will have no effect on the editorial process or outcome, and your manuscript will remain publicly available and free to read on SSRN whether our editors accept or reject your manuscript.
You will receive an email when your preprint is posted online on SSRN and a Digital Object Identifier (DOI) is assigned.
Corresponding authors must seek approval from all co-authors before agreeing to release a manuscript publicly on SSRN.
We advise you to read about SSRN , including the SSRN Terms of Use and SSRN FAQs before selecting this option.
Use of inclusive language
Inclusive language acknowledges diversity, conveys respect to all people, is sensitive to differences, and promotes equal opportunities. Authors should ensure their work uses inclusive language throughout and contains nothing which might imply one individual is superior to another on the grounds of:
age
gender
race
ethnicity
culture
sexual orientation
disability or health condition
We recommend avoiding the use of descriptors about personal attributes unless they are relevant and valid. Write for gender neutrality with the use of plural nouns ("clinicians, patients/clients") as default. Wherever possible, avoid using "he, she," or "he/she."
No assumptions should be made about the beliefs of readers and writing should be free from bias, stereotypes, slang, reference to dominant culture and/or cultural assumptions.
These guidelines are meant as a point of reference to help you identify appropriate language but are by no means exhaustive or definitive.
Reporting sex- and gender-based analyses
There is no single, universally agreed-upon set of guidelines for defining sex and gender. We offer the following guidance:
Sex and gender-based analyses (SGBA) should be integrated into research design when research involves or pertains to humans, animals or eukaryotic cells. This should be done in accordance with any requirements set by funders or sponsors and best practices within a field.
Sex and/or gender dimensions of the research should be addressed within the article or declared as a limitation to the generalizability of the research.
Definitions of sex and/or gender applied should be explicitly stated to enhance the precision, rigor and reproducibility of the research and to avoid ambiguity or conflation of terms and the constructs to which they refer.
We advise you to read the Sex and Gender Equity in Research (SAGER) guidelines and the SAGER checklist (PDF) on the EASE website, which offer systematic approaches to the use of sex and gender information in study design, data analysis, outcome reporting and research interpretation.
For further information we suggest reading the rationale behind and recommended use of the SAGER guidelines .
Definitions of sex and/or gender
We ask authors to define how sex and gender have been used in their research and publication. Some guidance:
Sex generally refers to a set of biological attributes that are associated with physical and physiological features such as chromosomal genotype, hormonal levels, internal and external anatomy. A binary sex categorization (male/female) is usually designated at birth ("sex assigned at birth") and is in most cases based solely on the visible external anatomy of a newborn. In reality, sex categorizations include people who are intersex/have differences of sex development (DSD).
Gender generally refers to socially constructed roles, behaviors and identities of women, men and gender-diverse people that occur in a historical and cultural context and may vary across societies and over time. Gender influences how people view themselves and each other, how they behave and interact and how power is distributed in society.
Jurisdictional claims
We respect the decisions taken by our authors as to how they choose to designate territories and identify their affiliations in their published content. Our policy is to take a neutral position with respect to territorial disputes or jurisdictional claims, including, but not limited to, maps and institutional affiliations.
Maps: Readers should be able to locate any study areas shown within maps using common mapping platforms. Maps should only show the area actually studied and authors should not include a location map which displays a larger area than the bounding box of the study area.During the review process, our editors may request authors to change maps if such cases occur.
Institutional affiliations: Authors should use either the full, standard title of their institution or the standard abbreviation of the institutional name so that the institutional name can be independently verified for research integrity purposes.
Writing and Formatting
File format
We ask you to provide editable source files for your entire submission (including figures, tables and text graphics). Some guidelines:
Save files in an editable format, using the extension .doc/.docx for Word files and .tex for LaTeX files. A PDF is not an acceptable source file.
Lay out text in a single-column format.
Use spell-check and grammar-check functions to avoid errors.
We advise you to read our Step-by-step guide to publishing with Elsevier .
LaTeX
We encourage you use our LaTeX template when preparing a LaTeX submission. You will be asked to provide all relevant editable source files upon submission or revision.
Support for your LaTeX submission:
LaTeX submission instructions and templates
Journal Article Publishing Support Center LaTeX FAQs and support
Researcher Academy’s Beginners’ guide to writing a manuscript in LaTeX
Title page
You are required to include the following details in the title page information:
Article title. Article titles should be concise and informative. Please avoid abbreviations and formulae, where possible, unless they are established and widely understood, e.g., DNA).
Author names. Provide the given name(s) and family name(s) of each author. The order of authors should match the order in the submission system. Carefully check that all names are accurately spelled. If needed, you can add your name between parentheses in your own script after the English transliteration.
Affiliations. Add affiliation addresses, referring to where the work was carried out, below the author names. Indicate affiliations using a lower-case superscript letter immediately after the author's name and in front of the corresponding address. Ensure that you provide the full postal address of each affiliation, including the country name and, if available, the email address of each author.
Corresponding author. Clearly indicate who will handle correspondence for your article at all stages of the refereeing and publication process and also post-publication. This responsibility includes answering any future queries about your results, data, methodology and materials. It is important that the email address and contact details of your corresponding author are kept up to date during the submission and publication process.
Present/permanent address. If an author has moved since the work described in your article was carried out, or the author was visiting during that time, a "present address" (or "permanent address") can be indicated by a footnote to the author's name. The address where the author carried out the work must be retained as their main affiliation address. Use superscript Arabic numerals for such footnotes.
Abstract
You are required to provide a concise and factual abstract. The abstract should briefly state the purpose of your research, principal results and major conclusions. Some guidelines:
Abstracts must be able to stand alone as abstracts are often presented separately from the article.
Avoid references. If any are essential to include, ensure that you cite the author(s) and year(s).
Avoid non-standard or uncommon abbreviations. If any are essential to include, ensure they are defined within your abstract at first mention.
Keywords
You are required to provide 1 to 7 keywords for indexing purposes. Keywords should be written in English. Please try to avoid keywords consisting of multiple words (using “and” or “of”).
We recommend that you only use abbreviations in keywords if they are firmly established in the field.
Highlights
You are encouraged to provide article highlights at submission.
Highlights are a short collection of bullet points that should capture the novel results of your research as well as any new methods used during your study. Highlights will help increase the discoverability of your article via search engines. Some guidelines:
Submit highlights as a separate editable file in the online submission system with the word “highlights” included in the file name.
Highlights should consist of 3 to 5 bullet points, each a maximum of 85 characters, including spaces.
We encourage you to view example article highlights and read about the benefits of their inclusion.
Graphical abstract
You are required to provide a graphical abstract at submission.
The graphical abstract should summarize the contents of your article in a concise, pictorial form which is designed to capture the attention of a wide readership. A graphical abstract will help draw more attention to your online article and support readers in digesting your research. Some guidelines:
Submit your graphical abstract as a separate file in the online submission system.
Ensure the image is a minimum of 531 x 1328 pixels (h x w) or proportionally more and is readable at a size of 5 x 13 cm using a regular screen resolution of 96 dpi.
Our preferred file types for graphical abstracts are TIFF, EPS, PDF or MS Office files.
We encourage you to view example graphical abstracts and read about the benefits of including them.
Math formulae
Submit math equations as editable text, not as images.
Present simple formulae in line with normal text, where possible.
Use the solidus (/) instead of a horizontal line for small fractional terms such as X/Y.
Present variables in italics.
Denote powers of e by exp.
Display equations separately from your text, numbering them consecutively in the order they are referred to within your text.
Tables
Tables must be submitted as editable text, not as images. Some guidelines:
Place tables next to the relevant text or on a separate page(s) at the end of your article.
Cite all tables in the manuscript text.
Number tables consecutively according to their appearance in the text.
Please provide captions along with the tables.
Place any table notes below the table body.
Avoid vertical rules and shading within table cells.
We recommend that you use tables sparingly, ensuring that any data presented in tables is not duplicating results described elsewhere in the article.
Figures, images and artwork
Figures, images, artwork, diagrams and other graphical media must be supplied as separate files along with the manuscript. We recommend that you read our detailed artwork and media instructions . Some excerpts:
When submitting artwork:
Cite all images in the manuscript text.
Number images according to the sequence they appear within your article.
Submit each image as a separate file using a logical naming convention for your files (for example, Figure_1, Figure_2 etc).
Please provide captions along with the artwork.
Text graphics may be embedded in the text at the appropriate position. If you are working with LaTeX, text graphics may also be embedded in the file.
Artwork formats
When your artwork is finalized, “save as” or convert your electronic artwork to the formats listed below taking into account the given resolution requirements for line drawings, halftones, and line/halftone combinations:
Vector drawings: Save as EPS or PDF files embedding the font or saving the text as “graphics.”
Color or grayscale photographs (halftones): Save as TIFF, JPG or PNG files using a minimum of 300 dpi (for single column: min. 1063 pixels, full page width: 2244 pixels).
Bitmapped line drawings: Save as TIFF, JPG or PNG files using a minimum of 1000 dpi (for single column: min. 3543 pixels, full page width: 7480 pixels).
Combinations bitmapped line/halftones (color or grayscale): Save as TIFF, JPG or PNG files using a minimum of 500 dpi (for single column: min. 1772 pixels, full page width: 3740 pixels).
Please do not submit:
files that are too low in resolution (for example, files optimized for screen use such as GIF, BMP, PICT or WPG files).
disproportionally large images compared to font size, as text may become unreadable.
Figure captions
All images must have a caption. A caption should consist of a brief title (not displayed on the figure itself) and a description of the image. We advise you to keep the amount of text in any image to a minimum, though any symbols and abbreviations used should be explained.
Provide captions in a separate file.
Color artwork
If you submit usable color figures with your accepted article, we will ensure that they appear in color online.
Please ensure that color images are accessible to all, including those with impaired color vision. Learn more about color and web accessibility .
For articles appearing in print, you will be sent information on costs to reproduce color in the printed version, after your accepted article has been sent to production. At this stage, please indicate if your preference is to have color only in the online version of your article or also in the printed version.
Generative AI and Figures, images and artwork
Please read our policy on the use of generative AI and AI-assisted tools in figures, images and artwork , which states:
We do not permit the use of Generative AI or AI-assisted tools to create or alter images in submitted manuscripts.
The only exception is if the use of AI or AI-assisted tools is part of the research design or methods (for example, in the field of biomedical imaging). If this is the case, such use must be described in a reproducible manner in the methods section, including the name of the model or tool, version and extension numbers, and manufacturer.
The use of generative AI or AI-assisted tools in the production of artwork such as for graphical abstracts is not permitted. The use of generative AI in the production of cover art may in some cases be allowed, if the author obtains prior permission from the journal editor and publisher, can demonstrate that all necessary rights have been cleared for the use of the relevant material, and ensures that there is correct content attribution.
Supplementary material
We encourage the use of supplementary materials such as applications, images and sound clips to enhance research. Some guidelines:
Cite all supplementary files in the manuscript text.
Submit supplementary materials at the same time as your article. Be aware that all supplementary materials provided will appear online in the exact same file type as received. These files will not be formatted or typeset by the production team.
Include a concise, descriptive caption for each supplementary file describing its content.
Provide updated files if at any stage of the publication process you wish to make changes to submitted supplementary materials.
Do not make annotations or corrections to a previous version of a supplementary file.
Switch off the option to track changes in Microsoft Office files. If tracked changes are left on, they will appear in your published version.
We recommend you upload research data to a suitable specialist or generalist repository. Please read our guidelines on sharing research data for more information on depositing, sharing and using research data and other relevant research materials.
Video
This journal accepts video material and animation sequences to support and enhance your scientific research. We encourage you to include links to video or animation files within articles. Some guidelines:
When including video or animation file links within your article, refer to the video or animation content by adding a note in your text where the file should be placed.
Clearly label files ensuring the given file name is directly related to the file content.
Provide files in one of our recommended file formats . Files should be within our preferred maximum file size of 150 MB per file, 1 GB in total.
Provide "stills" for each of your files. These will be used as standard icons to personalize the link to your video data. You can choose any frame from your video or animation or make a separate image.
Provide text (for both the electronic and the print version) to be placed in the portions of your article that refer to the video content. This is essential text, as video and animation files cannot be embedded in the print version of the journal.
We publish all video and animation files supplied in the electronic version of your article.
For more detailed instructions, we recommend that you read our guidelines on submitting video content to be included in the body of an article .
Research data
We are committed to supporting the storage of, access to and discovery of research data, and our research data policy sets out the principles guiding how we work with the research community to support a more efficient and transparent research process.
Research data refers to the results of observations or experimentation that validate research findings, which may also include software, code, models, algorithms, protocols, methods and other useful materials related to the project.
Please read our guidelines on sharing research data for more information on depositing, sharing and using research data and other relevant research materials.
Option C: Research data deposit, citation and linking
For this journal, the following instructions from our research data guidelines apply.
You are required to:
Deposit your research data in a relevant data repository.
Cite and link to this dataset in your article.
If this is not possible, make a statement explaining why research data cannot be shared.
Data statement
To foster transparency, you are required to state the availability of any data at submission.
Ensuring data is available may be a requirement of your funding body or institution. If your data is unavailable to access or unsuitable to post, you can state the reason why (e.g., your research data includes sensitive or confidential information such as patient data) during the submission process. This statement will appear with your published article on ScienceDirect.
Read more about the importance and benefits of providing a data statement .
Data linking
Linking to the data underlying your work increases your exposure and may lead to new collaborations. It also provides readers with a better understanding of the described research.
If your research data has been made available in a data repository there are a number of ways your article can be linked directly to the dataset:
Provide a link to your dataset when prompted during the online submission process.
For some data repositories, a repository banner will automatically appear next to your published article on ScienceDirect.
You can also link relevant data or entities within the text of your article through the use of identifiers. Use the following format: Database: 12345 (e.g. TAIR: AT1G01020; CCDC: 734053; PDB: 1XFN).
Learn more about linking research data and research articles in ScienceDirect .
Research Elements
This journal enables the publication of research objects (e.g. data, methods, protocols, software and hardware) related to original research in Elsevier’s Research Elements journals .
Research Elements are peer-reviewed, open access journals which make research objects findable, accessible and reusable. By providing detailed descriptions of objects and their application with links to the original research article, your research objects can be placed into context within your article.
You will be alerted during submission to the opportunity to submit a manuscript to one of the Research Elements journals. Your Research Elements article can be prepared by you, or by one of your collaborators.
Article structure
Introduction
The introduction should clearly state the objectives of your work. We recommend that you provide an adequate background to your work but avoid writing a detailed literature overview or summary of your results.
Material and methods
The materials and methods section should provide sufficient details about your materials and methods to allow your work to be reproduced by an independent researcher. Some guidelines:
If the method you used has already been published, provide a summary and reference the originally published method.
If you are quoting directly from a previously published method, use quotation marks and cite the source.
Describe any modifications that you have made to existing methods.
Theory and calculation
The theory section should lay the foundation for further work by extending the background you provided in the introduction to your article. The calculation section should represent a practical development from a theoretical basis.
Results
Results should be clear and concise.We advise you to read the sections in this guide on supplying tables, artwork, supplementary material and sharing research data.
Discussion
The discussion section should explore the significance of your results but not repeat them. You may combine your results and discussion sections into one section, if appropriate. We recommend that you avoid the use of extensive citations and discussion of published literature in the discussion section.
Conclusion
The conclusion section should present the main conclusions of your study. You may have a stand-alone conclusions section or include your conclusions in a subsection of your discussion or results and discussion section.
Glossary
Please provide definitions of field-specific terms used in your article, in a separate list.
Abbreviations
Abbreviations which are not standard in the field should be defined in a footnote on the first page of your article.
Abbreviations which are essential to include in your abstract should be defined at first mention in your abstract, as well as in a footnote on the first page of your article.
Before submission we recommend that you review your use of abbreviations throughout your article to ensure that it is consistent.
Footnotes
We advise you to use footnotes sparingly. If you include footnotes in your article, ensure that they are numbered consecutively.
You may use system features that automatically build footnotes into text. Alternatively, you can indicate the position of footnotes within the text and present them in a separate section at the end of your article.
Acknowledgements
Include any individuals who provided you with help during your research, such as help with language, writing or proof reading, in the acknowledgements section. Acknowledgements should be placed in a separate section which appears directly before the reference list. Do not include acknowledgements on your title page, as a footnote to your title, or anywhere else in your article other than in the separate acknowledgements section.
Author contributions: CRediT
Corresponding authors are required to acknowledge co-author contributions using CRediT (Contributor Roles Taxonomy) roles:
Conceptualization
Data curation
Formal analysis
Funding acquisition
Investigation
Methodology
Project administration
Resources
Software
Supervision
Validation
Visualization
Writing – original draft
Writing – review and editing
Not all CRediT roles will apply to every manuscript and some authors may contribute through multiple roles.
We advise you to read more about CRediT and view an example of a CRediT author statement .
Funding sources
Authors must disclose any funding sources who provided financial support for the conduct of the research and/or preparation of the article.The role of sponsors, if any, should be declared in relation to the study design, collection, analysis and interpretation of data, writing of the report and decision to submit the article for publication.If funding sources had no such involvement this should be stated in your submission.
List funding sources in this standard way to facilitate compliance to funder's requirements:
Funding: This work was supported by the National Institutes of Health [grant numbers xxxx, yyyy]; the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Seattle, WA [grant number zzzz]; and the United States Institutes of Peace [grant number aaaa].
It is not necessary to include detailed descriptions on the program or type of grants, scholarships and awards. When funding is from a block grant or other resources available to a university, college, or other research institution, submit the name of the institute or organization that provided the funding.
If no funding has been provided for the research, it is recommended to include the following sentence:
This research did not receive any specific grant from funding agencies in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors.
Appendices
We ask you to use the following format for appendices:
Identify individual appendices within your article using the format: A, B, etc.
Give separate numbering to formulae and equations within appendices using formats such as Eq. (A.1), Eq. (A.2), etc. and in subsequent appendices, Eq. (B.1), Eq. (B. 2) etc. In a similar way, give separate numbering to tables and figures using formats such as Table A.1; Fig. A.1, etc.
Vitae
Please submit a short (maximum 100 words) biography of each author and include a passport-type photograph as a separate figure. Please provide the biography in an editable format (e.g. Word, not in PDF format).
References
References within text
Any references cited within your article should also be present in your reference list and vice versa. Some guidelines:
References cited in your abstract must be given in full.
We recommend that you do not include unpublished results and personal communications in your reference list, though you may mention them in the text of your article.
Any unpublished results and personal communications included in your reference list must follow the standard reference style of the journal. In substitution of the publication date add “unpublished results” or “personal communication.”
References cited as “in press” imply that the item has been accepted for publication.
Linking to cited sources will increase the discoverability of your research.
Before submission, check that all data provided in your reference list are correct, including any references which have been copied. Providing correct reference data allows us to link to abstracting and indexing services such as Scopus, Crossref and PubMed. Any incorrect surnames, journal or book titles, publication years or pagination within your references may prevent link creation.
We encourage the use of Digital Object Identifiers (DOIs) as reference links as they provide a permanent link to the electronic article referenced. See the example below, though be aware that the format of such citations should be adapted to follow the style of other references in your paper.
DOI link example (for an article not yet in an issue):
VanDecar J.C., Russo R.M., James D.E., Ambeh W.B., Franke M. (2003). Aseismic continuation of the Lesser Antilles slab beneath northeastern Venezuela. Journal of Geophysical Research, https://doi.org/10.1029/2001JB000884 .
Reference format
This journal does not set strict requirements on reference formatting at submission. Some guidelines:
References can be in any style or format as long as the style is consistent.
Author names, journal or book titles, chapter or article titles, year of publication, volume numbers, article numbers or pagination must be included, where applicable.
Use of DOIs is recommended.
Our journal reference style will be applied to your article after acceptance, at proof stage. If required, at this stage we will ask you to correct or supply any missing reference data.
Reference style
Indicate references by adding a number within square brackets in the text. You can refer to author names within your text, but you must always give the reference number, e.g., "as demonstrated [3,6]. Barnaby and Jones [8] obtained a different result ....".
Number references in the order they appear in your article.
Examples:
Reference to a journal publication:
[1] J. van der Geer, T. Handgraaf, R.A. Lupton, The art of writing a scientific article, J. Sci. Commun. 163 (2020) 51 – 59. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sc.2020.00372 .
Reference to a journal publication with an article number:
[2] J. van der Geer, T. Handgraaf, R.A. Lupton, 2022. The art of writing a scientific article. Heliyon. 19, e00205. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2022.e00205 .
Reference to a book:
[3] W. Strunk Jr., E.B. White, The Elements of Style, fourth ed., Longman, New York, 2000.
Reference to a chapter in a book:
[4] G.R. Mettam, L.B. Adams, How to prepare an electronic version of your article, in: B.S. Jones, R.Z. Smith (Eds.), Introduction to the Electronic Age, E-Publishing Inc., New York, 2020, pp. 281 - 304.
Reference to a website:
[5] Cancer Research UK, Cancer statistics reports for the UK. http://www.cancerresearchuk.org/aboutcancer/statistics/cancerstatsreport/ , 2023 (accessed 13 March 2023).
Reference to a dataset:
[6] M. Oguro, S. Imahiro, S. Saito, T. Nakashizuka, Mortality data for Japanese oak wilt disease and surrounding forest compositions [dataset], Mendeley Data, v1, 2015. https://doi.org/10.1234/abc12nb39r.1 .
Reference to software:
[7] E. Coon, M. Berndt, A. Jan, D. Svyatsky, A. Atchley, E. Kikinzon, D. Harp, G. Manzini, E. Shelef, K. Lipnikov, R. Garimella, C. Xu, D. Moulton, S. Karra, S. Painter, E. Jafarov, S. Molins, Advanced Terrestrial Simulator (ATS) v0.88 (Version 0.88) [software], Zenodo, March 25, 2020. https://doi.org/10.1234/zenodo.3727209.
Journal abbreviations
We ask you to abbreviate journal names according to the List of Title Word Abbreviations (LTWA).
Web references
When listing web references, as a minimum you should provide the full URL and the date when the reference was last accessed. Additional information (e.g. DOI, author names, dates or reference to a source publication) should also be provided, if known.
You can list web references separately under a new heading directly after your reference list or include them in your reference list.
Data references
We encourage you to cite underlying or relevant datasets within article text and to list data references in the reference list.
When citing data references, you should include:
author name(s)
dataset title
data repository
version (where available)
year
global persistent identifier
Add [dataset] immediately before your reference. This will help us to properly identify the dataset. The [dataset] identifier will not appear in your published article.
Software references
Cite software (including computational code, scripts, models, notebooks and libraries) in the same way as other sources of information to support proper attribution and credit, reproducibility, collaboration and reuse, and encourage building on the work of others to further research. To facilitate this, useful information is provided in this article on the essentials of software citation by FORCE 11, of which Elsevier is a member.
A reference to software should include the following elements:
Creator(s): the authors or project that developed the software.
Title: the name of the software.
Publication venue: the publication venue of the software, preferably, an archive or repository that provides permanent identifiers.
Date: the date the software was published. This is the date associated with a release or version of the software, or “n.d.” if the date is unknown.
Identifier: a resolvable pointer to the software, preferably, a PID that resolves to a landing page containing descriptive metadata about the software, similar to how a Digital Object Identifier (DOI) for a paper that points to a page about the paper rather than directly to a representation of the paper, such as the PDF. DOIs are preferable, and other examples of PIDs include Handles , RRIDs , ASCL IDs , swMath IDs , Software Heritage IDs , ARK Alliance , etc. If there is no PID for the software, a URL to where the software exists may be the best identifier available.
Version: the identifier for the version of the software being referenced. If the version is unidentified or unknown, the date of access should be used.
Type: some reference styles (e.g., APA), require a bracketed description of the citation (e.g., [Computer software]) to be included.
If an article exists that describes the software, it should be cited as an additional reference, as well as citing the software itself. Do not cite the article instead of the software.
Preprint references
We ask you to mark preprints clearly. You should include the word “preprint” or the name of the preprint server as part of your reference and provide the preprint DOI.
Where a preprint has subsequently become available as a peer-reviewed publication, use the formal publication as your reference.
If there are preprints that are central to your work or that cover crucial developments in the topic, but they are not yet formally published, you may reference the preprint.
Reference management software
Most Elsevier journals have their reference template available in popular reference management software products. These include products that support Citation Style Language (CSL) such as Mendeley Reference Manager .
If you use a citation plug-in from these products, select the relevant journal template and all your citations and bibliographies will automatically be formatted in the journal style. We advise you to remove all field codes before submitting your manuscript to any reference management software product.
If a template is not available for this journal, follow the format given in examples in the reference style section of this Guide for Authors.
Submitting your Manuscript
Submission checklist
Before completing the submission of your manuscript, we advise you to read our submission checklist:
One author has been designated as the corresponding author and their full contact details (email address, full postal address and phone numbers) have been provided.
All files have been uploaded, including keywords, figure captions and tables (including a title, description and footnotes) included.
Spelling and grammar checks have been carried out.
All references in the article text are cited in the reference list and vice versa.
Permission has been obtained for the use of any copyrighted material from other sources, including the Web.
For gold open access articles, all authors understand that they are responsible for payment of the article publishing charge (APC) if the manuscript is accepted. Payment of the APC may be covered by the corresponding author’s institution, or the research funder.
Submit online
Our online submission system guides you through the process steps of entering your manuscript details and uploading your files. The system converts your article files to a single PDF file used in the peer-review process.
Editable files (e.g., Word, LaTeX) are required to typeset your article for final publication. All correspondence, including notification of the editor's decision and requests for revision, is sent by email.
Please follow this link to submit your paper .
After Receiving a Final Decision
Article Transfer Service
If your manuscript is more suitable for an alternative Elsevier journal, you may receive an email asking you to consider transferring your manuscript via the Elsevier Article Transfer Service .
The recommendation could come from the journal editor, a dedicated in-house scientific managing editor , a tool-assisted recommendation or a combination.
If you agree with the recommendation, your manuscript will be transferred and independently reviewed by the editors of the new journal. You will have the opportunity to make revisions, if necessary, before the submission is complete at the destination journal.
Publishing agreement
Authors will be asked to complete a publishing agreement after acceptance. The corresponding author will receive a link to the online agreement by email. We advise you to read Elsevier's policies related to copyright to learn more about our copyright policies and your, and your employer’s/institution’s, additional rights for subscription and gold open access articles.
License options
Authors will be offered open access user license options which will determine how you, and third parties, can reuse your gold open access article. We advise that you review these options and any funding body license requirements before selecting a license option.
Open access
We refer you to our open access information page to learn about open access options for this journal.
Permission for copyrighted works
If excerpts from other copyrighted works are included in your article, you must obtain written permission from the copyright owners and credit the source(s) within your article using Elsevier’s permission request and license form (Word).
Proof correction
To ensure a fast publication process we will ask you to provide proof corrections within two days.
Corresponding authors will be sent an email which includes a link to our online proofing system, allowing annotation and correction of proofs online. The environment is similar to Word. You can edit text, comment on figures and tables and answer questions raised by our copy editor. Our web-based proofing service ensures a faster and less error-prone process.
You can choose to annotate and upload your edits on the PDF version of your article, if preferred. We will provide you with proofing instructions and available alternative proofing methods in our email.
The purpose of the proof is to check the typesetting, editing, completeness and correctness of your article text, tables and figures. Significant changes to your article at the proofing stage will only be considered with approval of the journal editor.
Share Link
A customized Share Link , providing 50 days free access to the final published version of your article on ScienceDirect , will be sent by email to the corresponding author. The Share Link can be used to share your article on any communication channel, such as by email or on social media.
For an extra charge, you will be provided with the option to order paper offprints. A link to an offprint order form will be sent by email when your article is accepted for publication.
A Share Link will not be provided if your article is published gold open access. The final published version of your gold open access article will be openly available on ScienceDirect and can be shared through the article DOI link.
Responsible sharing
We encourage you to share and promote your article to give additional visibility to your work, enabling your paper to contribute to scientific progress and foster the exchange of scientific developments within your field. Read more about how to responsibly share and promote your article .
Resources for Authors
Elsevier Researcher Academy
If you would like help to improve your submission or navigate the publication process, support is available via Elsevier Researcher Academy .
Elsevier Researcher Academy offers free e-learning modules, webinars, downloadable guides and research writing and peer review process resources.
Language and editing services
We recommend that you write in American or British English but not a combination of both.
If you feel the English language in your manuscript requires editing to eliminate possible grammatical or spelling errors and to conform to correct scientific English, you may wish to use the English Language Editing service provided by Elsevier’s Author Services.
Getting Help and Support
Author support
We recommend that you visit our Journal Article Publishing Support Center if you have questions about the editorial process or require technical support for your submission. Some popular FAQs:
How can I track the status of my submitted article?
When will my article be published?
About ScienceDirect
Remote access
Shopping cart
Advertise
Contact and support
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies are used by this site. Cookie Settings
All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the Creative Commons licensing terms apply.